# Processo Seletivo Babbel
## Presentation
- Andrzej Neumann - EM on Data Platform Team
- Fabrizio - Senior Data Analyst
- [[Lisa Quetting]]

- Data: privileged and cursed
	- Curse of being the data kernel to the company
	- The biggest value is not generating data, but to streamline data consumption inside the company
	- Data is not missing, a lot of things are tracked, how can we make sure that we streamline the data consumption and make sure everyone can take value out of the data and insights

## Case study
[[Babbel Business Analytics Case Study.pdf]]

### Objective
- Understand approach to prioritizing high impact initiatives, structuring problems, driving impactful changes and working with teams and stakeholders.
- Present to a panel of peers, managers and/or direct reports. 20min presentation + 20min Q&A + 20min interview with peers.

### Context
Babbel is a Marketing and Sales driven business, primarily dependent on revenue growth generated by new subscription sales.

#### Performance Marketing Team
- Main stakeholder
- Responsibility: generate leads (registered users) and subscription sales (with revenue)
- Strong interface with Controlling team, responsible for maintaining cost efficiency
- January is the busiest month
- Size: 50 people
- Disciplines:
	- Content Marketing
	- Search Engine Marketing
	- TV & Offline
	- Search Engine Optimization
	- Display Sales
- Leadership wants to increase their data availability ans insight-based decision-making with more data exploration possibilities for the team

#### Analytics Team
- Finite number of resources that can not support all initiatives
- Dealing with stakeholders that
	- Tend to push towards initiatives that impact revenue directly, with limited regard for long-term effects
	- Prefer to work on many smaller, low-risk initiatives at the same time, rather than pooling resources to fewer bigger impact, higher rick initiatives

> Short vs long term is mentioned due to conflicting points of view: analytics believes that the new model is the best and fair option for the long-term, but stakeholders are afraid of the effect that it may have on their projects and status quo

#### Attribution
- Performance is managed with an attribution model that assigns conversions (leads and sales) to touchpoints (session on the website or in the app) in a way that the last touchpoint across web and app wins (last event attribution)
- The model is based on clickstream data from a robust events pipeline, streaming detailed, real-time data about pre- and post-purchase events, throughout the customer lifecycle
- Business impact is quite high, since Marketing budget per channel and month is defined based on the historical performance according to the attribution model
- The calculation is implemented in the legacy data warehouse, which's inner workings are poorly documented and people who implemented it have left the company. From the legacy database, tables are copied to Snowflake and queried via Tableau in various frequently used Tableau reports
- A new attribution model has been developed by BAs and DEs
	- Developed in Snowflake, based on the same source data but bypassing the legacy DW
	- Using a linear distribution of conversions to touchpoints (aiming for more fairness between Marketing channels when measuring their performance, reflecting a multichannel reality and being well documented)
	- Model includes all data and features and is ready to be used in reporting, but stakeholders are reluctant to swtich, not sure which changes to expect from the new model and how to plan their budget based on it

### Questions
1. 
	a. How would you approach the transition to the new attribution model for budgeting? 
	b. What would be important considerations and risks, when planning the next steps?
2. Babbel started to work with OKRs recently. Company key results are broken down to team objectives; projects are represented as team key results at a pretty high level. One of your tasks is to make sure the realisation of the objectives and key results works well. Which opportunities and challenges do you see for a BI team working with multiple stakeholders (such as Marketing, Controlling and Business Development)?
3. How would you create & communicate a reliable roadmap for the team that also takes the OKR topic and the other team challenges into account?

### Presentation
#### [1min] About Me (B-side)
- Objective: create identification with me and break the ice

#### [3min] Context and Challenges
- Objective: communicate back what I've understood from the assignment and, if anything is different from what was expected, make clear what I plan to address

#### [5min] Attribution Model Transition
- Objective: 

#### [5min] Team OKRs
- Objective: 

#### [5min] Roadmap and Communication
- Objective: 

#### [1min] Next Steps
- Objective: give closure to the presentation and mention possible leftovers that weren't addressed

### Content
#### [1min] About Me (B-side)
#### [3min] Context and Challenges
- Make it clear that the goal is not to discuss the attribution model strategy (e.g. linear, first/last click, etc)

#### [5min] Attribution Model Transition
- Same thing, _two points of view_: there is a legacy model, that supports a status quo for stakeholders and at first sight seem to deliver the desired and correct results, but under a more strict investigation can cause a huge toil for the data team and a liability in scaling our company's data assets and platform
- A change both in infrastructure and attribution model strategy. That means more than one (and in practice a lot) moving part, which can in turn make it challenging to verify that no negative business impact is being generated by the initiative (in other words, that the overall result is equal or better)
- Premises for the change
- Important points we need to be on top of
	- Lose stakeholders' confidence after an incident
		- Create a smooth and well-communicated transition, through routines with stakeholders, full transparency on results
- We need to be under a common agreement that the new model is best suited for the current business moment, through two lenses:
	- Business impact: how would the new model, if applied to the last 3-6 months, have changed the strategy (attribution, budget) we followed through? In real conversion rates, business results would have been better?
		- Hypothesis: we can find out that, after comparing the two models, the attribution wouldn't be that different for some cases, making the transition smoother.
	- Toil: how big is the effort to maintain the old attribution model? Even better, what is the "net value gain" between the effort to migrate minus the effort to maintain? What other projects could be developed by the Business Analytics team with that gain? Oftentimes we'll need to say "I'm not really helping you if I deliver what you're asking".
		- Specially in a scenario where leadership wants the department to be more data-driven
- Given the importance of the attribution model for the next period, it should be reflected on one of the KRs for the team. Having something like "migrate from 0 to 1 attribution model" is not a good KR, since it doesn't help to steer the team's initiatives towards that. A better KR will reflect something that is the result of the migration and can be measured continuously, such as "percentage of conversions attributed by the new model".
- Having one of the important KRs for the team defined, and some more that can be also created based on other important projects and business opportunitites, the measuring process itself has to be outlined

#### [5min] Team OKRs
- Intro framework: Decision Stack
	- Relation to Golden Circle
- Can be divided in Foundational and Result-driven, measuring both the "how" and the "what"
- Measuring success in a team with multiple stakeholders and potential projects can be challenging. If we are not cautious, there is a risk that the OKRs don't reflex the team's daily challenges and requests
- One possibility is to focus on the overall business (e.g. help map out initiatives with a total business impact of XXX new customers or YYY in sales -- still depend on business implementation)
- Working with multiple stakeholders...
	- Opportunities
		- BA can identify and help develop synergy between different business areas, since we have a broad point of view in data, processes and metrics
		- OKRs are more than success metrics, they are a communication and alignment tool
	- Challenges 
		- It’s hard to define the correct metrics from the beginning; there should be clarity that the process of defining KRs will get better in every cycle, but using data as input should never be overlooked
		- OKRs don't reflect the reality of the daily challenges and roadmap of the team --> connection to the next question
- Again, OKRs must reflect the daily challenges and roadmap of the team so that they can properly function as a tool to help deliver more and better results. Talking about roadmap...

#### [5min] Roadmap and Communication
- When creating the roadmap,
	- OKRs give us the north and helps to measure our path to success -- and also to communicate responsibilities
	- The roadmap is our best guess on how to achieve the results, and should be created taking into account the expectations from stakeholders
- In communicating with the team,
	- Involve everyone
	- Take everyone's opinion into consideration, but be clear about what's negotiable and what's not
	- Make expectations clear on each person's role
- Nothing is written in stone
	- The business and our team can always gather new information that will be relevant to the roadmap

#### [1min] Next Steps
- Bring data to the table: what are result metrics that can measure the new attribution model’s success?
- Understanding the most important business objectives, is it how can we help measure the path to success?
- Make clear that some projects need to happen in the team to keep engines running, such as addressing legacy data platforms and architectures
- GoT Horse mode of creating next steps

### References
#### About Babbel in Marketing and Data
- https://www.babbel.com/en/magazine/our-marketing-evolution
- https://emarsys.com/why-emarsys/success-stories/babbel-personalizes-mobile-experience/
- https://www.thinkwithgoogle.com/intl/en-cee/marketing-strategies/app-and-mobile/babbel-drives-leads-cost-efficiently-smart-bidding-and-responsive-ads/
- https://www.babbel.com/en/magazine/aws-fargate-for-data-engineering

#### About the proposed strategies
- https://towardsdatascience.com/how-conways-corollary-wrecks-your-data-organization-c81d0b134230?gi=9951b20a369c
- https://martineriksson.com/the-decision-stack/

## Babbel Hiring Manager
With [[Lisa Quetting]], on [[2022-01-25]]
- 40% people, 60% project management
- Next step: case study (take-home challenge), present in front of group of 3 people (Lisa, DE Team Lead, Data Product Manager)

### Prepped questions
#### Lisa
- What is something you think could be better at Babbel, and how strongly you feel that you can work to change it?
	- Data-wise: documentation and tech debt (expected, but still a pain point)
	- Changing stakeholder's mindsets
- Kind of a personal question: how do you see yourself and your career at Babbel in the next years?
- What excites you more about what is being called the [[Modern Data Stack]]?

#### Analytics
- What led you to have a lead position open?
	- Last leader went out (he, working with data in climate change)
- What does success look like for the Analytics team -- both from yours and the company's point of view?
	- Company/stakeholders: data-driven decisions, steer the business successfully (lot of steering in Marketing and BD). Help achieve KRs based on data. Move to single product company to a multi product company (enable that through data).
	- Team: balancing between short and mid term demands, making sure that is well created and documented (sustainability)
- I like to think about Data and Analytics as a mix of "Data as a Product" and "Data as a Service" deliveries. How would you balance that in the team today?
- In Sep 2020 there were 11 people. How many now, and how is it projected to grow?

#### Babbel
- "Understanding changes everyting" resonates with me, even though I'm not the most polyglot, because for me that means a lot more people in the world you can get to know. How does that translate in the daily work environment at Babbel?
- How would you define Babbel's leadership team?
- How has Babbel's IPO process impacted the company and the people?
- From talking to Aly before, I understand Babbel is planning to go back to the office. Why is that?
	- Not remote-first, looking forward

## Caissa Recruiting
With [[Aly Badran]], on [[2022-01-06]]
- Background
	- Caissa Recruiting
	- Primarily in Technology Leaderships
	- Startups, Scale-ups
	- Berlin companies
- Role/Client
	- Business Analytics Leadership
	- Coming up with insights, strategy, using data to help the Business
	- Particularly focused on Python, SQL or R, but also Looker
	- Company: Babbel
- Value proposition I have to offer
	- What I do/like

## About the company
- Was supposed to IPO in September 2021, backed-off
	- https://techcrunch.com/2021/12/22/despite-scrapped-ipo-babbel-sees-fast-growth-for-its-language-learning-service/
- 400% increase in revenue in the second half of 2021
- Content is king
	- Integration between environments: Babbel Live, podcasts, app platform
- 501-1000 people according to Crunchbase
- B2B and Live representing 9% of the profits
- Where I think it's going
	- Creating a growing ecosystem, where each product contributes with both revenue and experience to all the others
	- Growing B2B business and maybe strenghtening as a platform